# New Window Settings

A Cinnamon extension to configure newly opened windows based on the new windows Application. It remembers any changes you make to a windows "Always on Top" and "Always on Visible Workspace" settings and then applies those same settings to any new window that is opened for that application in the future.



For example:  If you wanted to have the "Always on Visible Workspace" setting for Spotify you currently have to reapply that setting every time you start Spotify. With this extension enabled, once you enable the "Always on Visible Workspace" setting for Spotify, any time in the future you open Spotify (even after a reboot) the setting will remain enabled. All new Spotify windows will continue in this way until you change a Spotify window to be "Only on This Workspace".

## Requirements

This extension requires Cinnamon 5.4 or better.

## Installation

- Right click on the cinnamon panel and click "System Settings"
- Click on the "Extensions" icon under the "Preferences" category
- Click the "Download" tab and then click the "New Window Settings" entry
- Click the "Install" button on the right and then return to the "Manage" tab
- Select the new "New Window Settings" entry and then click the "+" button at the bottom of the window
- Use the "gears" icon next to the "New Window Settings" entry to open the setting window and setup the preferred behavior

## Feedback

Please leave a comment here on cinnamon-spices.linuxmint.com or you can create an issue on my [Github](https://github.com/klangman/NewWindowSettings) to give me feedback, make a suggestion or to report any issues you find.

If you like this Cinnamon extension, please give it a "star" here any maybe on my [Github](https://github.com/klangman/NewWindowSettings) repository as well to encourage me to continue working on the project. Thanks!

## Credits

The New Window Settings icon was generated by Google Gemini
