# Rearrange Workspace



A Cinnamon extension that allows you to define hotkeys which will move the current workspace to the left or to the right in the workspace list.

By default the Shift+Ctrl+(Left/Right) keys are defined as the hotkeys to move the workspace, but this can be changed in the config. For example you can change the hotkeys to use the Up/Down keys if that feels more natural to you.

## Future Plans

In the future I plan on extending the features of this extension by adding the ability to use drag-and-drop from within the Cinnamon Expo (Ctrl+Alt+Down) to rearrange workspaces. But this will take some time and I am not sure if there will be any technical issue that might prevent me from accomplishing this.

## Requirements

This extension requires Cinnamon 5.4 or better (i.e Mint 21.0 or better).

It is possible that it could work on earlier versions but I didn't test it. I know for sure it does not work on Cinnamon 4.0, so I just set the minimum to 5.4.

## Installation

- Right click on the cinnamon panel and click "System Settings"
- Click on the "Extensions" icon under the "Preferences" category
- Click the "Download" tab and then click the "Rearrange Workspaces" entry
- Click the "Install" button on the right and then return to the "Manage" tab
- Select the new "Rearrange Workspaces" entry and then click the "+" button at the bottom of the window
- Use the "gears" icon next to the "Rearrange Workspaces" entry to open the setting window and setup the preferred hotkey key combinations.

## Feedback

Please leave a comment here on cinnamon-spices.linuxmint.com or you can create an issue on my [Github](https://github.com/klangman/RearrangeWorkspaces) to give me feedback, make a suggestion or to report any issues you find.

If you like this Cinnamon extension, please give it a "star" here any maybe on my Github repository as well to encourage me to continue working on the project. Thanks!

## Credits

The Rearrange Workspaces icon was generated by Google Gemini.
